# AInsectID
AInsectID is a GUI based software that with this initial release, can be used to identify (currently 122) insect species. The software can also be used for color processing and analyses of insect body parts such as wings, and additionally includes a simple image analysis giving users the flexibility to both automatically and manually quantify the geometrical features within the image. In a world bustling with diverse insect species, accurate identification is important. This software uses AI to revolutionize the way we identify insects with up to 99.64% accuracy (determined through validation testing). AInsectID represents a significant leap forward in insect species identification. Traditional methods require any of: specialized taxonomical knowledge, time-consuming morphological and geographical characterization methods, genetic barcoding expertise, or even in some cases, destructive sampling. With AInsectID, machine learning and deep learning algorithms are used to identify and classify insect species based on their morphological features, This process is fast, highly accurate, and is now freely accessible to a broader audience. This is a software that we will update over time, this is Version 1. The dataset contains free to use software developed at The University of Edinburgh entitled AInsectID. The software comes with the following functionality: (1) Insect species identification (2) image analysis and morphometric analysis tools (3) colour mapping and colour manipulation tools. This is the first version of the software release. A user manual is provided with the software.
Software is availbale on datashare of University of Edinburgh.. Here is complete link for all files and executables.
https://datashare.ed.ac.uk/handle/10283/8580
